From Hansel minutes.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number one 80 recorded
live Thursday, September 17th, 2009. Support for
Hanselman it's just provided by
Tellerik rad controls, the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode,
Scott talks about rich internet
application services with Brad Abrams.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And I'm
sitting down today with Brad
Abrams. Brad runs a team
and the.net framework for Microsoft.
And you may have heard
his name over the years
in reference to the base
class libraries. What are you
working on now, Brad? Oh,
Hey Scott. So I'm working
on a two very fun
project. I love working on
one project. So one is
the manage, the sensibility framework
and the other is.net reassert.net
Rhea services. So RIA is
rich internet application. I love
these names. We have these
extensive marketing guys at Microsoft.
We come up with a
beautiful name. So really what
we're trying to do with,
with relay services is make
it way easier to bill
into your application in here.
So if you look at
the vast majority of developers
on the platform today, and
maybe this is true outside
the.net platform too, they're mostly
building sees here app. They
have a database somewhere and
they have some UI. Maybe
the UI is in PHP
or asp.net, and maybe it's
not the best practice in
the world, but a lot
of the times that UI
connects directly to that database
pulls data out. And we
often see that's true in
client app and WinForms app
and VPF. A lot of
those VVCS apps have mindsight
directly through the data. And
as we move this, does
that resonate with you? You
can get, I've always made
a big differentiation in my
mind between tiers and layers.
Is that an agreed upon
taxonomy or is that just
me? You know, that's a
great question. So we argue
about that a lot internally,
so no, I don't think
there's any great standard on
that. What do you mean
by like, by layer? For
me, I've always said in
architecture probably over the last
five or six years that
a layer is a logical
thing and a tear is
a physical thing. So you
might have a multilayered thing.
It may be three layers,
but it's really only two
tears, tears being physical. Yeah.
Yeah. I agree. I agree.
So, yeah. So I guess
we're talking about late, we're
talking layers here and I
would venture to say most
developers, you know, the distinction
would be lost on them
and they're not putting layers
in their, in their products
either. It's some extent, you
know, Microsoft to blame for
some of that. I mean,
if you could take a
look at a lot of
the demos and examples that
we've done for , you
know, a lot of them
do show, Oh, ESPN app
connecting directly to the database.
So this is a, like
a website talking directly to
SQL server using the SQL
server protocol. Yeah. So we
have like, you know, back
in the day we introduced
the data sources and we
have 80 on that data
source and all that jazz.
And now we have it
linked to see people in
entity framework, but that's effectively
still going directly against the
database. And this is bad.
Why, why is that bad?
Well, I know, but I
have to play the, I
have to play the interviewer.
Well, I think a lot
of architects could complain about
that, but to be honest
with you, no, because of
things like Gail and flexibility
and maintenance of the code,
but I think it really
becomes a problem. When you
start moving into these, what
are called Rhea application patterns
with Ajax and with a
silver light, it's not really
possible to do that direct
line size of the database
and Google, right? You have
to go through a web
view. And all of a
sudden we take taken this
huge mass of developers that
know how to do the
two tier app. And you've
moved them into a fundamentally
three here world, where now
there's the database, there's the
middle tier. And there's where
the client's running either in
Ajax or flash for that.
Okay. Is it primarily a
Rhea originally an application problem
or is it a problem
with scale? Cause we always
used to think when we
were building large systems, that
the issue was going to
be that we'd need some
intermediate machine, we'd have a
web server that would talk
to a business layer server
that would talk to a
database and that would provide
us more scale because we
could say, well, I need
more web servers. They're working
hard. Or I could say,
I need more business servers.
They're working hard. Is this
an issue of protocol in
that? I don't want my
browser talking directly to my,
my database or is this
an issue of scale or
is it both? Yeah. In
some ways I think it's
both, I think it's first,
there's kind of a security
issue with the database kind
of on a, on a
web that has the people.
It's more obvious that you're
doing that. And so it
makes people nervous to go
do that. We don't see
a lot of Ajax app
occupying TDS, for example, that's
the protocol that sequel server
talks directly. So, and then
I think it is also
a scale issue. One of
the ways I think about
it, this may sound a
little bit pejorative, a little
bit kind of fatherly, but
I think whenever there's an
inflection point in the industry,
it's Microsoft responsibility to move
customers through that inflection point
in a way that leads
to a better architecture. So
for example, I do think
we're in a big inflection
point now where we're moving
into a, more of a
REIA application pattern and, and
to help developers move there
better, we're gonna make building
kind of correct architecture with
an into your pattern, a
lot easier for them to
get. And when you say
that we're, we're moving into
a, more of a REIA
pattern, is that mean, does
that mean flash in several
light or does that mean
that we have a lot
more capabilities on the client
and that does that include
a JavaScript itself? Yeah, I
think, you know, some of
the official Microsoft folks may
know what Rhea is, but
certainly as I look at
the industry, I think Rhea
includes things like AJAG silver
life flash. And essentially the,
I think the key element
of, of Ajax in the
path of is in the
past, we have done a
lot of arguing about, you
know, should our client app
or web app and, and
client have a lot of
benefits. They can take advantage
of the hardware that can
have a rich user experience.
And when I've asked the
better, because they're easier to
deploy and, and fundamentally deep
question, you know, they're kinda,
there's no great answer to
that. So what I think
the REIA pattern is doing,
we're approaching it from both
sides saying how does the
web to get richer? And
you're seeing that with Ajax
today, there's some very rich
Ajax applications that are every
bit as rich as many
desktop app. And then you're
seeing on a desktop side,
us making the deployment mistakenly
easier. And now with Silverlight,
we're, we're getting there with
the ubiquity thing. We're very
close to the same ease
of deployment as you see
with, with standard web app,
but you have musically more
original. Okay. So let's, let's
take it down to more
of a wire protocol minute
for a four minute here.
So when I've done, and
again, this was, you know,
a couple of years ago
in banking, we had messaging
over the wire, which was,
you know, we used to
call it as a mix,
right web services, and then
it became Ws star and
the web services interoperability stack.
So whether it be as
a max or WCF kind
of classic Indigo was the
code name. At the time
we were talking about passing
angle brackets around via HTTP,
that described messages that were,
and we always used to
be, you know, we had
a post office kind of
a metaphor. We had envelopes
and we had a dressing
and we had messaged bodies.
And then, and that was,
and that is good. And
then that, that works fine
when you are sending messages.
And then there was rest,
the representational state transfer and
rest was a, an acceptance
that HTTP has enough verbs
that one could do crud
create, read, update, delete over
HTTP in a fairly robust
way. And then there was
Jason, which was basically like
XML, except instead of angled
brackets, you got curly braces
and it was a lot
smaller and JavaScript gobbled it
up nicely. That's a lot
of different choices for someone
to make. As far as
things I can talk over
port 80 and HTTP to
my back end, what is
RIAs services as it relates
to those existing protocols? So
the ways you think about
Rhea services is it supports
all of that. If it's
just a higher level programming
model buildings, WPF service, we've
done a lot of work
with WDTF to support the
angle brackets. That's the historical.
And we've also done work
recently is the support rep
more of a rep of
programming interface as well as
Jason directly from within w
so, and what we think
is a personality I want
to make is my first
programming assignment ever. I actually
got paid to write CA
I was, I was dealing
with long and far. It
kind of far in short.
I do remember long before
runners in the wind, 33
last day have to go
think about that. And it
made a lot, a lot
of life, right? And I
think this question of, do
you rest or do Jake,
if it's the same thing,
just five years from now,
I hope we will have
be having to spend a
bunch of time talking about
that. And the conversation will,
we'll be moving up to
the back. Like, it'll just
be a given that if
you're writing a modern Rhea
service, that it supports all
of it. Yeah, it's fine.
If you, if it turns
out they're each good for,
or one scenario, for example,
Jason is by far the
best thing to do. If
you have an Ajax point,
you have an apex client,
you know what he'd be
parking that is so the
envelope like that makes no
sense whatsoever. But if you
talk to me.net.net, which is
in the case in many
of these silver light apps,
I am running this server.
And when did it Dawn
that framework on the server
and on the client, I'm
running silver life, that's dot
net. Is there something we
can do to have a
super efficient protocol for that
binary, blah, blah, blah. You
see what I'm saying? Yeah.
So remoting back in the
day did it did a
very nice kind of efficient
model, but the way we
think about it today is
actually in Silverlight three WTF
introduced essentially binary. So he's
still, but So it's the,
so it's yeah, this is,
this is the binary XML.
It's the soap object model
squished and made efficient. Yeah,
I think we need to
think about as developers, as
optical engineers is what is
the programming surface that we're
writing again? What's it look
like to write this and
do is the way I
structured my server client logic
different because I had a
Jason Head on the thing or
I have a rep head
or, or I have this
binary hip in our assertion
is, is not, not that
different. Okay. So I want
to just make clear for
listeners because I want to
understand from the top down
from the bottom up, is
there a change to the
protocols that I'm, I know
how to use as the
wire format look different when
I'm using Rhea services? Yeah.
The wire format is exactly
w yeah. With WPF offices.
The, literally when you build
a Reyes service, it is
a WCF service. So there's
not something funny or fancy
going on. There's not, is
there any kind of Microsoft
specific namespace type stuff happening?
Like what if I wanted
to call this with something
else? Yeah. Okay. So that's
a, that's a great question.
So yeah, if you wanted
to call, so our, our
bread and butter scenario, you
got to start with a
V one. So R V
one bread and butter scenario
is definitely Silverlight client dominant
on service silver line. And
there we have a really
great kind of have a
very high fidelity story going
on. And in fact, we
do things like shared code.
You can write code on
the server on the client
as well. We send a
lot of really rich metadata
to do things like validation.
We send original values so
we can do change tracking
and things like that. And
then, so then you're in
the line. The question is,
what does it look like
to non silver light client?
Well, what you will see,
you will be able to
walk up to re domains
or are kind of a
class or WTF and act
it for wisdom. And it'll
give you the wisdom for
all the operations that are
on there, and you'll get
what I would consider sort
of base level axes. We're
working with the various parties
to go figure out how
to get things like shared
code, the metadata enhancement. We
need to the wisdom, I
don't know yet if that's
going to make it into
the V one or not.
So what you'll see is
a good amount of stuff,
kind of the base level
stuff and the wisdom, and
then over time as we
can evolve within with bill,
you'll see more and more.
Okay, cool. So then talk
about this programming model. Yeah.
Yeah. I think that is
a really the interesting part
of the thing. And I
think we can break it
down into two parts and
the client and the server.
So on the server, if
you think about a lot
of the services people, right,
they're, they're essentially kind of
crowd based service, create, update,
delete, re record. And so
we kind of noodle around
that pattern a good bit.
And on the read side,
one of the big things
that we've done is we've
made it so you could
write a service that returns
an I query. So, and
you can implement the, I
query of Ohio, everyone maybe
calling LinkedIn SQL or any
framework or in hibernate new
linked support to, to create
my query eval. And the
advantage of the I query
will, even from the client,
you're able to do things
like a give and take
for paging or do filtering
and with some natural link
impact on the client, you
realize that link to the
server and then run it
again, query bill that you
returned from your methods. So
that means you can write
kind of very familiar link
sort of on the server
and have that be highly
efficient in terms of how
it does that. Does that
make sense? Okay. So does
that mean that I am
unaware? I was going to
say ignorant, but am I
unaware of what's happening on
the wire? Is this a
matter of you promise to
return? Well, behaved, I query
will things and we'll handle
the rest cause sometimes no
pun intended because there was
a scent remoting. And before
it deacon was the beginning
of moving object orientation to
the web and the mistake
that object orientation when moved
into a distributed system made
was the lack of recognition
of costs of moving across
object boundaries. And the idea
that, Oh yeah, you just
do this and look, you
can call your object from
New Zealand. Look at that. Your
object doesn't even know that
it's a remoted and the,
the lack of recognition of
that cost was a problem.
And then service orientation was
more of a, an acknowledgement
that there is a service
boundary. How much is this
hiding from me? The fact
that I'm going across about
I boundary. So I think
you'll see, as I talk
more about it, there is
still an explicit boundary because
I, I usually say, I
don't think we can. I
don't think it makes sense
to completely hide the boundary
from the user. But what
I think we can do
is make it easier to
take, to think about what
is the plum stuff I
have to do because of
that balance. And if there's
plumbing stuff in there that
doesn't help me understand the
boundaries, it's just kind of
viewed after. Right? Let's get
rid of that. So for
example, I don't know how
many times I got a
few of your listeners have
written a web service that
support pages that, Hey, a
page count and a current
page, you know, from the
pages parameters and applies the
page logic and return to
the data. That way I
certainly have seen a lot
of customers go and do
that. Why do we have
to have everybody go do
that? Can we just model
the thing as an I
clear evil and then to
support aging, sorting, filtering via
the normal I query double
negative. Okay. And what I
want to use that layer
from anything else or is
that, is this one of
his things we have to
derive from a certain object
and then I can only
use it for this purpose?
Well, I do think that
that's a gym. If you
think about it longterm, there's
nothing specific about Silverlight in,
in the meeting that scenario.
So I do back then
working super closely with the
WCF guys. I do suspect
that over time. Now, a
lot of the concepts that
we're talking about with Rhea
services today, she has baked
into any WPF. Certainly when
we talk about validation in
a minute, that that is
definitely another one that I
think we should do right
into them. That's queriable the
other one I wanted to
talk about. What's changed that.
And I think that another
kind of big issue concept,
as you mentioned, one of
the things we learned from
remoting is if you can't
have a really chatty interface,
you can, every time I
set a property on, on
a, on a , I
don't want to go back
to the server and change
that problem. Essentially, the model
why we want to be
with the area is I
want to bring down a
bunch of data. I want
to perform a bunch of
local operations on the data,
create new instances, updated instances,
delete them. And, and the
back pack is set up
as a change that and
send it as a batch
up to the server in
one, one network. And then
on the server. What I,
what I want to do
is kind of run through
that change set and apply
each one of the, of
the chains in a natural
program. Hey everybody, this is
Scott coming at you from
another place in time. No
doubt. You'll probably bump into
testing tasks now, and then,
and your work and, you
know, writing functional tests is
probably not your favorite thing.
It's kind of difficult. It
takes time and the results
can be dubious. Well, get
ready to start liking tests.
Thanks to Tellerik with the,
the new web testing framework.
Building web automation test is
a breeze. You've got code
automation with advanced asp.net Ajax,
and several other applications. You
can write a single test,
have it executed against multiple
browsers at once. You'd benefit
from a rich API there's
link support integration with visual
studio unit testing, also in
unit X unit and NBA
unit, not to mention the
free rappers for Telerik rad
controls for ESPN and Ajax,
and several light, all shipping
with Telerik's new testing tool.
One of the best features,
the webinar testing framework, which
is developed by art of
test is it's absolutely free
Friday got hooked on web
testing framework, start using it
right away, go to tellerik.com
for more info. Thanks a
lot. Is the user aware
of this? I mean, they
make a change, make a
change and then click save,
and then you're handling change
tracking in the client, and
then you batch it up.
That's right. Well, I think
we can leave it as
a separate discussion of what
do we think the right
actual end user experience for
that is. But yeah, the
demo is we do have
like a submit button on
and you make change, make
a change. We like to
submit, but you're right. So
what we do on the
client is some change tracking.
So we know what's changed.
And then the mid that
batch server, then what's nice
is on the server is
you just write a method
called update employee, delete employee
and create new employee. And
whenever a change that comes
in that has an update
employee on it, we'll code
and create dotnet objects associated
with that, give you the
original value, give you the
value out of the database
and let you handle what
you want to do to
actually update them. Okay. And
would you think about that
in the context of, of
being atomic? Yeah, so we
think we do think of
change as being atomic. So
when you send a chain
set in either all the
operations path or, or none
of them, and the transactional
kind of capability in there
is really up to whatever
the data access layer you're
using is. But yeah, we
certainly think with something like
LinkedIn equal or in a
hybrid aid or entity framework
that changes would get rolled
back and you would get
them back on the server
here is the one that
had an issue, give you
a chance to fix that
and you can resubmit the
to Okay. And that actually
you brought up in hibernate
and you brought up some
other things, is, is Rhea
services specific to a backend
or is it only specific
to the BI queryable? Yeah,
so basically in somethings, it's
about even the specific to
I query bowl. You can
use, if you can return
an I innumerable you can
work in the system. Of
course, if you turn an
eye numerable, you're sucking all
that data into memory, but
you can probably do that.
So no one of the
design points for Rhea services
with essentially provide a adaption
layer that kind of help
you work with any back
ends that you want to
work in. When we think
there's a diversity of those,
and we think that will
continue for the foreseeable future.
But what we wanted you
to be able to do
is for example, move from
an on premises, SQL server
running entity framework to FSDs
do they SQL what they
call them out the cloud
hosted SQL server SQL Azure
as your yeah. W without,
without having to replumb the
UI. I mean, you could
imagine in the, in, in
two tier world, we talked
about at the top, if
you wanted to move from
SQL server to Azure, that
would be any significant change
is the UI layer. I
mean, the different kind of
model for working with the
data completely with Rhea services,
you may have to change
your implementations of some of
the query methods, for example,
or some of the create
update, delete methods, but you
wouldn't have to change the
Silverlight client at all. I
see. Okay. So there's an,
it's a, there's an adapter
that you really, you speak
one thing between, because what
formalizes the conversation between Silverlight
and the backend, and then
from there, and, and that,
and that is over the,
I query will interface as
well as others. And then
from there, it's up to
you to pull the data
from wherever. So I could
do Rhea services and pull
data from an ASMR 400
or a mainframe if I
felt like it. Absolutely. Absolutely.
Yeah. So I did this,
you know, customers ask me
if you kind of ,
but not in be framework
and LinkedIn equal. And so
I've worked on a few,
I did a ado.net with
a dataset that we have
a ton of people with
data models, dataset. And that
turns out that works just
fine with our system. We
have one with data reader
and data writer. I did
one in hibernate. I did
one, this was an interesting
one. I did one with
the data source being a
WCF service. So you get
the data, you call another
service, and then that handles
the data active. So we
think of it as like
a four tier scenario. And
there are definitely people who
have that mom. And because
this is WCF service, does
this mean that I have
a lot of flexibility about
what I can, how I
can protect it as far
as authentication. And can I
use, you know, I can
use just to sell, I
can use authentication. I can
use IP sec. I mean,
what kind of things can
I do? Like if I
were gonna write a banking
application in silver light, would
this still be a way
to do it? Yeah. Like
I said, it's a regular
WPF serve. That is by
default, it starts with a
config. So there's no nothing
in web thing, no stuff
to keep in sync and
blah, blah, blah. And we
hope that a lot of
customers will be able to
use that model and don't
have to go and do
a bunch of customization, but
it's nice to know that
there he needed. The, what
you can do is you
can, there's a well known
name for the WCF employment
that there is that you
can go into web config
and you can customize that
literally like any other WCF
server. So you can manage
the thing you can add
additional influence. We think it'd
be super common, add additional
employment, and then you can
go and even change the
influence that we put in
there by default, to talk
to the Silverlight client. When
you start doing that, when
we start changing the default
end points that are there,
chances are, you might have
to go to the silver
light client and change the
defaults that are there too.
So those kind of ones,
but it's factored wealthy Is,
is this, then now this
is currently I separate thing.
It's a separate download. When
is this going to be
baked into server light such
that this is the way
to do things? Yeah. So
it's a separate download and
I love it because you
know, it is both a
server and client component. It's
like, we're literally live in
the dotnet dream of, of
server and client. So we're,
we're actually right now today,
having conversations about, do we
put all this stuff in
the silver line, STK and
have Silverlight FTK, now it
can be installed on servers
or do we have a
separate install that is like
ASP and VC that all
on the server. So I,
I, you know, I think
that we'll work that out
pretty soon, but I think
what you should see is
the tooling experience that we're
gonna have in dev hin
will really make it feel
like this is a great
option for data from your
server instead of silver, like
yeah, of course, there's still
going to be WCF, generic
WTCS support and still rely
to call it The declarative
statement. I'm trying to pin
you down a little bit
that if you're going to
move data back and forth,
and you're going to use
silver, like this is the
preferred way. Not, not the
only way there's certainly people
have been doing it other
ways before, but this is
how you do it. Here's
what I would say in
our movie one, I forgot
everything. So the timeframe and
one, I would think this
is the best model. If
you're talking to your server,
you see what I mean
when you're talking it server.
So I'm building one app
there, the server pick and
the client PD, I think
Rhea services is a possible
solution to that. And, but
certainly we see apps that
get data from other sources,
right? That call INDB or,
you know, Amazon to go
get data to build out
that app. And you could
probably use RIAs surfaces on
the client to go do
that, but maybe it wouldn't
be Okay. So I wouldn't
use real services to write
a Twitter client. Yeah. It's
funny. He had Mickey guitar
actually has a example of
how to get to do
that. I would only use
via services to write it,
to solidify it. If really
what you're doing is you're
getting the Twitter data from
the server. And then on
the server, you're matching it
up with your own data.
Like you're augmenting it with
additional information that you keep,
and then you're sending it
down in a coherent way
down to the client. And
then I would use via
services for that pipe between
your server and the client,
but to get the actual
data from Twitter now, to
be Frank, I'd probably use
web request to getting the
data from the Twitter's web
service. But if I was
a, You know, Brad Abrams,
bank.com and I was switching
from a, a web based
banking system and I was
gonna build a whole banking
client, and we'd be talking
back to Brad aims.com. Then
that might be something I
would just read. Yeah, absolutely.
So one of the ones
we didn't talk about related
to change that I wanted
to mention is the data
validation store. I think that's
a, that's a pretty interesting
one. That's a good point.
Some of your listeners might
remember data annotation. Do you
know that a thing in,
in component model, Right. And
this is something that I've
used in asp.net MVC. Yeah,
that's right. So we originated
it in dynamic data and
then more recently we picked
it up with a CNBC.
So do you want to
give the pitch on it?
Well, I don't want to
pitch, I want to dig
into it. No, no, no,
no, no. I want you
to give a pitch on
it. Well, I mean on
data annotations. Yeah. Well, so
as I understand it, the
idea is that, you know,
as you have attributes and
we've had attributes for years,
attributes are little posted notes
that you put on objects
and data annotations are, I
think they're in system dot
component model that data annotations,
which is not system dot
web dot, this dot that,
and it's not system dot
several light dot, whatever dot,
whatever it's system dot component
model. So it's a, it's
a formalization of the, the
fact that a string might
have an email address or
a phone number or a
social security number in it,
or a, a long might
have more meaning. And it
might need to be within
a range of one to
a million, that information isn't
held by the data, the
data type. So it's, it's
data annotations that provide additional
constraints and information that the
standard.net data type doesn't provide.
And it's put in system
dot component model because it
is fundamental and can be
used anywhere it's specific to
enhancing the, the type system,
not specific to any particular
implementation. I think people are
familiar with it because they
saw it in asp.net dynamic
data, and they saw it
in MVC. So you're, you're
using that to, it was
what you're saying. Exactly, exactly.
And what I think is
really interesting in the interior
case of that, because what
we've done is the exact
same way you annotate your
data model with that data
annotation stuff to say, you
know, this field is read
only, or like you said,
the string links on this
and it would be this
big. And then we actually
propagate that data down to
the client. And then we
we've augmented all the controls
and the silver lights know
about that. And so you
get actual night kind of
red squiggly pop up that,
you know, we never, as
a user, you violate that
the read only fields really
are read. Only if you
say the struggling, can't be
more than 10 and you
put 11 characters in there
and boom, you pop up
a little red thing that
tells what it shows you.
The air methods, you can
get a really nice user
experience. But in addition, we
validate the exact thing again
on the server. So for
example, if you didn't hit
it with a silver like
client, if you hit it
with a Hanselman custom client
that certainly doesn't honor all
those rules, we want to
make sure that those data
validation really happens. So there's
actually a pipeline that runs
before your update method is
called. We run all the
data, annotation validation on that
instance to ensure that it's
a valid NC before you
get it. And that's where,
kind of the obvious security
concerns there What's happening on
the client or the server.
So it happens on the
client to give you the
great UX and it happens
on the server to give
you the security. I see.
Okay. So someone could potentially
intercept that traffic and decide
to push it back to
the server and then we
catch it again. But the
idea is that for the
best experience, you grab it
on the, on the, on
the client side, but you
only have to write it
once. That's right. That's right.
So we we've been talking
about the easy case, which
is amazing Microsoft. Hasn't solved
it up to this point,
the easy case it's just
like Sterling or required or
whatever, but actually real business
logic usually involve kind of
writing. And so w w
what we've done now is
you can actually write a
data validation role yourself, like
applying to the whole entity
that it says, you know,
like starving, can't be before
end date, or I guess
they could couldn't begin day,
can't be before start date
or whatever this credit card
number has to match this
sort of pattern. And you
can write that as a.net
method. And we will bring
that down to the client
and we'll execute it every
time the user changes some
value in that entity, we
will run your rule. And
then if it doesn't work,
we'll lay the right UI
and then we'll run exactly
that same code again. Okay.
At what point do you
think that this will be
mainstream? You kept saying V
one V one, obviously you're
setting expectations for the first
version. Yeah, so, right. So
right now we have a
go live license out there.
And so, you know, a
lot of people are already
using it and kind of
a prerelease form, kind of
the people that like to
be on the bleeding edge.
And then we're going to
do a beta here at
PDC. We just finished our
code completely for that. So
people will have a beta.
And then I think, you
know, being the typical Microsoft,
they agrees, I think kind
of early next year, we'll,
we'll see an RTM kind
of based on the feedback
we get in the mix
and whatnot. I mean, PC.
And do you think that
this will extend out to
things like, like WPF or
what I want to use
this in any non Silverlight
scenario? Yeah. So, yeah, I
think there's kind of two
really interesting ways that the
work we've done here with
Rhea services for Silverlight is
going to extend out one
we've already touched a good
bit on which is using
some of the stuff like
the validation store and the,
I query we'll just in
any WCF service. I think
that'll be super valuable kind
of thinking as we go
happen and getting all that
stuff into wisdom, everything's just
weren't, but that's one place
it'll expand out over time.
And then the other place
he likes to stand out
is other kind of programming
model. So we've done Silverlight
today and today we've also
done asp.net. So for example,
if you want to write
this query, man, did this
create, update and delete all
of that stuff, but have
the client be an asp.net
page? You can totally go
do that. And we have
a very efficient in proc
way to make that happen.
So for example, if you
wanted to build a standard
based web head, as well
as the rich Silverlight head,
but didn't want to write
your business logic twice for
that, you can totally go
use Rhea services. And wouldn't
that change things in a
big way though, because asp.net
and web applications in general
are kind of one request.
And then, and then, you
know, tear it down, start
it all over again, as
opposed to the persistence that
we have in an, in
a, in a REIA application.
It's interesting ANSI then that
has the data source pattern
associated with it that we've
talked about before. So we've
actually built a asp.net domain
data stores that you can
point at our Rhea services,
domain service. And essentially what
it does is it does
do that, builds up a
change that, and then calls
our, our, our data source.
So kind of in the
web forms model, I think
it works nicely to kind
of build up a page
that has been sent down
to the client. Does that
make sense to think about
the dynamic data today, ESPN
and dynamic data today? All
you can do is annotate
the model with the match
we talked about. You're still
accessing the database directly. What
if instead, you wanted to
write some business logic to
return only employee salary and
a greater than $10,000. That's
tough to do with dynamic
data today. And if you
instead use the re the
domain services model, you just
go put that in the
query method. Okay. Couldn't you
do that with a story
today, though, if you plugged
in the query interceptor. Yeah.
So a story, I has
a query interface after model,
and they have intersections A
story of a, sorry, a
story of being the ado.net
data services. Yeah. I think
a story is best for
building this kind of rest
based services. And I think
that the, you know, we're
talking with the story guys
too about supporting the same
sort of cut kind of
create update, delete pattern with
kind of specific methods for
those, because we're seeing a
lot of people kind of
gravitate to that sort of
model rather than the interceptor
model. You mentioned other program
models that the other ones
on our radar, I think
Ajax is a really natural
one. He does have all
of the clients side batching
and whatever it needs to
happen. So we're definitely looking
part at Ajax. And then
as things like WPF and,
and whatnot is definitely on
our list as well for
the future. Okay, cool. Hey,
someone on Twitter wanted to
know how long you've been
at Microsoft. Cause you know,
it's funny when I talk
to different Microsoft people, again,
I've only been there. I
think I've been there two
years now this week, they'll
say things like super, you
know, super excited. You know,
you can tell if someone's
been there a long time,
how long have you been
at Microsoft? I am super
excited to tell you that
I've been at Microsoft for
about 12 years. Yeah. I
started out on Internet's floor
way back in the day.
And then I moved to
the GLR kind of way
back when, when, when we
were fighting the Java VM,
those are good days, man.
There's a lot of fun.
I was the first program
manager for systems objects and
system that string that you
can blame me for those.
Thanks for those. That was
a lot of fun. And
then I moved on, You
wrote the spec for system
that object, you should put
that on a tee shirt,
walk around, just, you know,
I'm that guy. Yeah. Yeah.
I actually have a lot
of, you know, a lot
of, I feel like I've
learned a lot. There's definitely
some things that we do
differently about that. Maybe we
can have a different show
about, you know, how would
we do it over if
we could now, but overall,
I think it's proven to
be pretty successful. So I
eventually moved on to asp.net
and did ASP Ajax and
AFP, NBC ABC. And then
more recently moved over to
work on Silverlight mix of
light and a great for
line of business app is
this navigation framework and a
bunch of database form data
control like three. And then
now with resurfaces, hopefully we
can kind of round out
the picture on how to
build that out. How many,
I just had a curiosity
before we go, how many
people were on the original
team that were building.net versus
how many people are on
the kind of the whole
thing now, Way back, like
really originally I think it
was, they were maybe in
people, 15 people that kind
of form the original. Now
the thing is, I think
it's really interesting to see
how this stuff happens at
Microsoft. What happens is other
teams just kind of glommed
on to, for example, asp.net,
what would later become AAP
that started not too long
after we started the DLR
and they were a whole
separate team that I don't,
I don't want to get
how big, but it was
pretty small. And then they
significantly added to kind of
what would be done that
when they joined on kind
of, kind of partner with
us in building, what would
be done there. And then
the same thing happened with
visual studio and the languages
kind of piled on. I
don't know. Does that answer
it, it started small snowball.
Did you ever think it
would be anything? Did you
honestly think it was going
to be something? Oh yeah,
no. I was a huge
believer from day one. I
was a, you have to
do these, the one at
a big company, you have
to have what I would
call this irrational exuberance. And
you have to believe that
what you're doing is going
to change the world or
where else you can keep,
because there's, there's so much
stacked against you in making
that happen. I mean, literally
every month we were one
meeting away from getting killed,
you know, like this go
to this next exact review
and they may decide to
stop funding this thing. Right.
It was you, you, you
had to keep a really
strong, positive, we're going to
change the world sort of
attitude, but that's a lot
of fun, right? I mean,
if you w what do
you, what is it you,
I want to come to
work every day and believe
in changing the world. And
maybe I will. I hope
I have that amount of
Kool-Aid after 12 years, if
I make it 12 years,
if you don't, if you
don't have me fired until
sometime in the next week
Now, man, you still eat.
You gotta have the right.
Cool. Well, thanks a lot
for chatting with me today.
I really appreciate it. And
then where do people go
to learn about this? Do
they just Google with being,
or how do they find
that information? Seeing it being
a ? I think the
easiest thing to do is
go to silverlight.net there's forums
on there, and we have
services as you can get
download or lettuce. People can
find my blog and of
course, Twitter me as well.
And we can definitely Cool.
And your B aprons on
Twitter, right? Brad, Brad, EY.
Alright, very cool. Thanks a
lot. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.